#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
minimalistic
todonotes
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype true
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command biber
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\pdf_title "Linear Predictive Speech Synthesizer"
\pdf_author "Andy Pack"
\pdf_subject "EEEM030 Speech & Audio Processing & Recognition"
\pdf_keywords "EEEM030"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine biblatex
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\biblio_options urldate=long
\biblatex_bibstyle authoryear
\biblatex_citestyle authoryear
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.54cm
\topmargin 2.54cm
\rightmargin 2.54cm
\bottommargin 2.54cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style british
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\bullet 1 0 9 -1
\bullet 2 0 24 -1
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset FloatList figure

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Right Footer
Andy Pack
\end_layout

\begin_layout Left Footer
October 2020
\end_layout

\begin_layout Left Header
Sustainable Cable Ship - Group 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Vessel Technical Study
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Electrical Propulsion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The design of the vessel propulsion system is a critical factor in the final
 design for the project.
 The propulsion will have a significant influence on other factors of the
 design as well as being one of the main opportunities to reduce the operational
 carbon footprint.
 Working from the brief, the design of the propulsion system will be particularl
y focusing on two specifications, that of net-zero carbon operations and
 having a modular design facilitating a possible retrofit in the future.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Investigations were made into fully renewable electricity generation for
 the purpose of propulsion without chemical fuels.
 The main form of renewable electricity to have maritime applications would
 be solar.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Solar-powered ships have been commercially available for around 30 years
 however they are typically not of the same form factor as that being pursued
 here, tending towards smaller ferries and river or canal settings as opposed
 to sea-faring industrial vessels.
 Currently, the largest completely solar-powered ship is the Swiss 
\noun on
Tûranor PlanetSolar
\noun default
, the first solar electric ship to circumnavigate the globe.
 Standing at 30m long, the vessel is at least half the length of typical
 cable ships, it is not an industrial craft and was instead designed as
 a luxury yacht.
 The deck of the vessel is also almost entirely covered in solar cells,
 an impractical design point for an industrial ship.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to evaluate the efficacy of a solar-powered propulsion system,
 estimations were made using the average deck area and propulsion power
 requirements of the existing fleet of cable laying and maintenance vehicles.
 A range of solar panels were included in an effort to find the highest
 energy density possible.
 Even with the generous and somewhat unrealistic assumptions that the panels
 could produce their maximum rated power for 8 hours a day with 50% coverage
 of the deck, only 1% of the required power could be provided by the solar
 array, see appendix 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sec:Solar-Power-Estimations"
plural "false"
caps "false"
noprefix "false"

\end_inset

.
 Ultimately, a fully solar-powered industrial ship of scale being pursued
 in this project is not currently viable, despite solar being one of the
 most promising for such an application.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Modular Propulsion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some of the power generation methods discussed are not currently viable
 for the scale of vessel and endurance required.
 Many are close to being viable and will soon allow net-zero carbon operations
 with the feasibility of current fossil fuel solutions.
 With this and the design principle of modulation in mind, one method to
 allow retrofitting more advanced power generation in the future would be
 to abstract the power generation away from it's application in vessel propulsio
n.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In doing so, the propulsion system could be divided into two areas of concern,
 power generation and drive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Generation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The generation stage of propulsion would include methods of generating electrici
ty for the drive stage.
 This would include the power generated by chemical fuels as described in
 section NICK-PROPULSION and any renewable energy contributing to the propulsion
 of the vessel.
 Those systems not directly producing electrical power would include methods
 to transfer it, for example an alternator can be used to turn mechanical
 energy from a combustion engine to AC current.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Drive
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The drive section includes methods to store the energy from the generation
 stage and the thrust mechanisms, be they water jets, propellors or an alternati
ve.
 Although, in theory, the generation stage could be directly connected to
 the thrust methods, the inclusion of energy storage provides a buffer to
 smooth power draw spikes.
 This would reduce the need to increase the power being generated to serve
 periods of high power draw.
 If used, this would allow combustion engines to run in their most efficient
 states, partially decoupled from the power draw.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Onboard Operating Systems
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To operate effectively at sea, the ship requires a number of systems to
 aid in navigation and control.
 Many of these are standard for marine operations, the scope of systems
 being used must be considered in order to estimate power usage, this will
 have implications on the wider power systems including propulsion.
 With part-electric propulsion including batteries, designs could include
 powering the onboard systems from this battery set or from a separate array.
 Additionally, final designs could generate power for these systems using
 onboard renewable energy such as solar power or from the combustion engines,
 the use of renewables would be favoured in order to contribute to the goal
 of net-zero carbon operations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Navigation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The use of a maritime radar system is critical for safety when maneuvering
 at-sea and close to shore.
 By measuring the reflections of emitted microwave beams, possible collisions
 both static and mobile including other ships and land obstacles can be
 identified and avoided.
 This allows safe movement even without any visibility.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A sonar system is also standard for maritime operations.
 While radar provides mapping of obstacles at the surface, sonar typically
 maps below the water.
 In its simplest form this provides depth information, more advanced systems
 can provide more extensive mapping of the surroundings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, a satellite navigation system such as GPS or Galileo will provide
 global mapping when navigating throughout the mission life-cycle.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These systems will serve as inputs to the higher-level navigation systems
 including autonomous control and dynamic positioning.
 Originally designed merely to hold a course, autonomous piloting systems
 are now capable of performing SLAM (Simultaneous localisation and mapping)
 to construct an intelligent and dynamic course that will reroute around
 objects, be they other ships or land masses.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dynamic positioning is in many ways similar to the more intelligent autonomous
 systems described above.
 Originally used for offshore drilling operations, dynamic positioning systems
 are responsible for keeping a ship static, counteracting the moving ocean
 and wind.
 Advanced systems provide reliability and redundancy likely beyond the requireme
nts of this project,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Operations where loss of position keeping capability may cause fatal accidents,
 or severe pollution or damage with major economic consequences.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A suitable system for the repair operations taking into account it's capabilitie
s and cost with be important during the design.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Communications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The ship will be fitted with a VHF (Very high frequency) radio system, standard
 for maritime ship-to-ship, ship-to-shore and possibly ship-to-air communication
s.
 With transmitters limited to 25 watts, the radio has a range of roughly
 100 kilometers which would not typically be useful for ship-to-mission
 control communications, this use case would be provided by an internet
 connection.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Supplementing the collision avoidance provided by the radar system, the
 use of a VHF radio with AIS (Automatic identification system) capabilities
 provide additional information to passing ships.
 Ships broadcast messages including a unique identifier, status (moving,
 anchored), speed and bearing.
 Advanced systems can also relay information from other ships, creating
 a mesh network.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The ship should have multiple gateways to the wider internet.
 While berthed, the ship should be able to directly connect to the main
 depot, whether physically with an Ethernet cable alongside shore-power
 or via a high-strength wireless connection.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While at sea, the ship should be connected to the internet via a satellite
 connection.
 Satellite connectivity presents limited speed at a high price however it
 is one of the only methods to ensure consistent connectivity throughout
 the ship's operating range.
 With speeds typically below 1Mbps, specific QoS and flow controls would
 be necessary to prioritise mission critical traffic over user activity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Auxiliary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Other, more boilerplate, systems should be also included.
 This would include onboard lighting, both internal and external and an
 audio system for tannoy broadcasts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mission Ops - ROV
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Depot Technical Structure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Interaction with Ship
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Network Architecture
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Network-Architecture"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In designing a distributed cable repair environment across a depot and ship
 where digitalisation is a key design parameter, a secure and flexible network
 layout is critical.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The final environment will likely consist of between 2 and 3 networked sites
 depending on the physical layout of the depot, some of these sites should
 have bi-directional communications with the others.
 One of the critical design parameters will be security, both internal and
 external.
 External security includes protecting the network from outside actors with
 a firewall, access can be controlled with a virtual private network (VPN).
 Internally, security can be controlled using virtual LANs or VLANS.
 VLANs allow logical grouping of connected devices in order to specify rules
 defining who else on the network can be communicated with.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The structure of the network designed for the separate leisure facilities
 will depend upon it's location compared to the main depot.
 If the leisure facilities are directly co-located with the main depot then
 one large network could be constructed across both of the buildings.
 This could be done physically or with a wireless connection however a wired
 connection would be preferred for speed and stability.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Digitalisation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The concept of digitalisation has a somewhat broad definition, sometimes
 dependent on the domain and context in which it is used.
 For the purposes of this project, the following adequately describes the
 goal being pursued,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
The use of digital technologies to change a business model and provide new
 revenue and value-producing opportunities; it is the process of moving
 to a digital business.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "gartner-digitalization"
literal "false"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The most relevant areas within which to explore the process of digitalisation
 are the ship and mission operations, approaching what could colloquially
 be deemed a 
\emph on
Smart Ship
\emph default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As included in the discussion of the network layout, there will be server
 computation capabilities on the ship.
 Through the use of virtualisation, this hardware could be used both for
 network services and additional computation.
 These capabilities could be utilised for fields including AI and machine
 learning.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Combining bi-directional communication between ship and depot with local
 computation, mission coordination and could be made more efficient.
 Simple implementations could include live mission details being passed
 from depot-to-ship such as fault locations and equipment requirements and
 live, 
\emph on
heartbeat
\emph default
-like data being passed back to the depot such as location, speed, battery
 and fuel levels.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the main limitations would likely be the limited internet speed and
 latency of a satellite connection.
 It will be critical to ensure that, where possible, calculations with results
 relevant to the ship are computed locally in order to reduce the required
 bandwidth of the limited connection.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:bibliography"

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
btprint "btPrintCited"
bibfiles "references"
options "bibtotoc"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
\start_of_appendix
Solar Power Estimations
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Solar-Power-Estimations"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Nuclear Extract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nuclear energy is a proven technology for vessels of this size however there
 are many caveats that effectively discount it from applications in this
 project.
 Despite effectively producing zero emissions, the required infrastructure,
 specialists, liability, and safety requirements are far beyond the scope
 of this project, insuring the vessel would also be a significant obstacle.
 For these and other reasons, nuclear marine propulsion is still mostly
 limited to military vessels.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
